Welcome to the user guide! If you are a little lost or confused, you should find the resolution to your problem here. If your questions remain unanswered feel free to drop us an email at support@reallyCaringCompanyAKAgroup2.com. We would love to hear from you!
We hope that this guide will serve as an indispensable resource.

Firstly, there are two levels of access: 1) Employee, 2) Manager. The former access level allows only the most rudimentary of tasks, such as the ability to simply view the current customer list, or to view the stock list and see how much of each product is in stock. Manager access level allows access to all parts of the program. Entries may be added, edited, or even removed. So, when ordering in new stock for the business, the manager may keep track of this by updating the list on this application. Similarly, when a new supplier begins deliveries to the company, their details may be added to the supplier database.

If you are a manager, and are currently logged in with an employee username, please log out by selecting the "log out" command in the "user" drop-down menu bar, and then log in again using your correct details.

File
There are two commands here: "Open" and "Save". If you wish to save your progress from your current work, you may click "Save". A pop-up window will appear, and prompt you to save the data as a .txt file. You may choose the name of this file, and where exactly to store it. To open previous saves of the workspace, simply click "Open", and navigate to where you have stored the file.


User
Here you have the options to "Logout" or "Exit" from the program. If you select "Logout", you will return to the Login screen, where you will be prompted to re-enter your user details. If you select "Exit", a pop-up window will ask you whether you are sure that you wish to exit the program. If so, click "Yes", and the program will close.

Menu
Here you have the options to open the "User Guide" or to click "About Group 2". Since you already found your way to the User Guide, I don't think we need to explain any more about this. "About Group 2" simply lists the members of our team who created this program.

Customer
In this tab, you may view and edit the details of your current customers. As default, you begin with three customers, but you may add more, or even delete these customers (if you feel like destroying business!). An ID is automatically generated by the program for each customer that is in the system. This is for the program's reference, and is not relevant for the user.
To add the details of a new customer, click the "Add New" button. Once clicked, the "Edit" and "Delete" options will become unclickable. The "Add New" button itself will be replaced by the "Cancel" button, which may be clicked at any point to exit from the process of adding a new customer
You will be prompted for the name, email address, telephone number, and postal address of this new customer. Once the required information is inputted, click "Submit" to save this new customer. Please note that all fields must be filled in. 
Email address must be given in the following format: john.doe@example.com. The local part of the email address must contain at least one alphanumeric character. The domain part must contain at least one alphanumeric character before the dot, and at least two alphabetic characters signifying the domain after the dot.
Telephone numbers must be filled in according to the format 0yyxxxxxxx. This covers all of the possible telephone numbers in the Republic of Ireland.
Given the diversity of address types in this country, the same checks are not (yet) in place. Therefore it is imperative for you as the user to verify yourself that the address appears plausible.
To edit the details of a current customer, select a customer from the drop-down menu, and click the "Edit" button. You may then alter any of the entries according to the restrictions given above.
To delete a customer from the database, click the "Delete" button. A pop-up window will ask you whether you are sure that you wish to delete that particular customer. If you are, click "Yes", and that customer's details will be removed.


Supplier
In this tab, you may view and edit the details of your current suppliers. As default, you begin with four suppliers, but you may add more, or even delete some. As in the case for the Customer tab, an ID is generated automatically for each supplier. As previously clarified, this is for the program's reference, and is not relevant for the user.
To add the details of a new supplier, click the "Add New" button. Once clicked, the "Edit" and "Delete" options will become unclickable. The "Add New" button itself will be replaced by the "Cancel" button, which may be clicked at any point to exit from the process of adding a new supplier.
You will be prompted for the name, email address, contact number, postal address, contact name, and VAT number of this new supplier. Once the required information is inputted, click "Submit" to save this new supplier. Please note that all fields must be filled in. 
Email address must be given in the following format: john.doe@example.com. The local part of the email address must contain at least one alphanumeric character. The domain part must contain at least one alphanumeric character before the dot, and at least two alphabetic characters signifying the domain after the dot.
Telephone numbers must be filled in according to the format 0yyxxxxxxx. This covers all of the possible telephone numbers in the Republic of Ireland.
Given the diversity of address types in this country, the same checks are not (yet) in place. Therefore it is imperative for you as the user to verify yourself that the address appears plausible.
The contact name should represent the name of a person with whom you have dealings in this particular supplier. It should therefore be a real name, and only contain alphabetic characters.
The VAT code should be in the format xZZZZ, where x is the prefix, and ZZZZ are some numbers. For example, valid VAT codes would be x1234 or x5555.
To edit the details of a current supplier, select a supplier from the drop-down menu, and click the "Edit" button. You may then alter any of the entries according to the restrictions given above.
To delete a supplier from the database, click the "Delete" button. A pop-up window will ask you whether you are sure that you wish to delete that particular supplier. If you are, click "Yes", and that supplier's details will be removed.

Staff
In this tab, you may view and edit the details of your current staff. As default, you begin with two members of staff, one of whom has an "Employee" access level, and the other a "Manager" access level. As in the case for the Customer and Supplier tabs, an ID is generated automatically for each staff member. As previously clarified, this is for the program's reference, and is not relevant for the user.
To add the details of a new staff member, click the "Add New" button. Once clicked, the "Edit" and "Delete" options will become unclickable. The "Add New" button itself will be replaced by the "Cancel" button, which may be clicked at any point to exit from the process of adding a new supplier.
You will be prompted for the name, email address, contact number, postal address, and access level for this new staff member. Once the required information is inputted, click "Submit" to save this new staff member. Please note that all fields must be filled in. 
Email address must be given in the following format: john.doe@example.com. The local part of the email address must contain at least one alphanumeric character. The domain part must contain at least one alphanumeric character before the dot, and at least two alphabetic characters signifying the domain after the dot.
Telephone numbers must be filled in according to the format 0yyxxxxxxx. This covers all of the possible telephone numbers in the Republic of Ireland.
Given the diversity of address types in this country, the same checks are not (yet) in place. Therefore it is imperative for you as the user to verify yourself that the address appears plausible.
The access level tells you whether that particular staff member has "Employee" or "Manager" access rights. Employee access is signified by the integer "1", and Manager access is signified by the integer "2". If you write a number other than 1 or 2 in this box, the program will report and error, and it will be necessary to re-type the entry.
To edit the details of a current staff member, select a staff member from the drop-down menu, and click the "Edit" button. You may then alter any of the entries according to the restrictions given above.
To delete a staff member from the database, click the "Delete" button. A pop-up window will ask you whether you are sure that you wish to delete that particular staff member. If you are, click "Yes", and that staff member's details will be removed.

Product
In this tab, you may view and edit the details of your current products. As default, you have a 12 products, but you may add more, or even delete some. As in the case for the other tabs, an ID is generated automatically for each supplier. As previously clarified, this is for the program's reference, and is not relevant for the user.
To add the details of a new product, click the "Add New" button. Once clicked, the "Edit" and "Delete" options will become unclickable. The "Add New" button itself will be replaced by the "Cancel" button, which may be clicked at any point to exit from the process of adding a new product.
You will be prompted for the product name, product category, product description, product's supplier, supplier price, retail price, profit margin wished. Once the required information is inputted, click "Submit" to save this new supplier. Please note that all fields must be filled in. 
The product name field should include the make, brand, and specific model.
The product category highlights the type of product that you are adding. Example of product category include laptop or smartphone.
The product description should include any details that a customer may find useful to know. So, for example, when describing a laptop computer, it may be useful to know the processor frequency, processor make, RAM, ROM, display resolution, and other noteworthy features such as weight (if it is especially light), dimensions, whether or not it has a SSD, or if it comes with specific software already installed.
For the product's supplier, you must select a supplier from a drop-down list. If the relevant supplier is not listed here, you must return to the supplier tab and select "Add New".
The Supplier Price shows the cost of the product to you as the retail store. The Retail Price includes the markup indicated by your entry for Profit Margin.
To edit the details of a currently existing product, select a product from the drop-down menu, and click the "Edit" button. You may then alter any of the entries keeping in mind the explanations given above.
To delete a product from the database, click the "Delete" button. A pop-up window will ask you whether you are sure that you wish to delete that particular product. If you are, click "Yes", and all details of that product will be removed.

Customer Order
In this tab, you may order in new products. To do this, select a product from the drop-down menu, specify a quantity to order (under "pc(s)"), and click the "Add" button. This will print 
to the screen a text copy of what you have just ordered. The "Total: " figure at the bottom of the screen shows the total cost (in €) of the ordered items. Note that each product has a different number of copies available. This is specified beneath "Available: ". It is not possible to order more if this number is zero.

Stock Control
This tab shows the products which are in stock, as well as their respective quantities. Their product IDs are also shown.

